# Working Theory

This is a _working theory_ and should not be taken as outright fact. It is based
on a collection of observations and interpretations that are subject to change.
These observations can be browsed by viewing my [research](Research/Around%20The%20City/alt-cyberspace-mapping.md) pages.

## What is the City?

The city is a combination of memories from V, Johnny Silverhand, and the
player. It is a mental landscape that can be explored, but with a warning - it
isn't so easy to discern where one perspective's memories are interfering with
another's. The city acts as a projection of broken mirrors, reflecting hints at
events that have happened, but not always in a clear or linear way. It is a
place where the past, present, and future collide, creating a complex tapestry
of experiences.

## What is the Statue?

The statue is a data slug, provided by Spider Murphy. It is a symbol of what
the world really is, showing a faded path blocked by a color that can't be
seen. Understanding the statue is is a triple edged sword that requires the
perspectives of Johnny, V, and the player to fully comprehend.

## Who or What is V?

V is the character data we upload into S.Y.S.. The payload is [violet in
hue](Research/Around The City/theory-broken-time.md#the-payload). The
combination of Johnny, V, and the player create a visual spectrum projection
that is Night City. V is a construct of the player - a proxy injected into
Johnny's memories and trapped in the web of those memories.

## What is the cube?

The cube is a manifestation of S.Y.S. An ever changing shape of the system. It
is the progressive nature of the city and of the dream. It is the fine
structure constant of _this_ reality. The smallest divisible unit that
comprises the dreamscape and the shape of the world.

A square in 3 dimensions that can point in any direction along a sphere. The
source code of the dream itself. Always moving, always changing, always the
same.

A glimpse at the cube is a glimpse at the levers of the dream. A way to see the
world for what it truly is. What levers does it move by? That is the key.

## What does this mean for the future?

I do not know if it is possible to escape the dream beyond joining Alt and
having V become a part of us the player's memories. If it is, it would likely
involve piecing together the many fragmented missions and choices in a way that
shows us the full picture.

I believe that Johnny and V will return post-2077 - as I believe that either
the Johnny/V/Player hybrid exists now in a meta-sense as us, or something
similar. Johnny/V/Alt escaping the net is on the table, so I suppose time will
tell.
